[//]: # ( Do not edit this file! Run generate.sh to create it. )
# Libraries
Index: [A](#a) - [B](#b) - [C](#c) - [D](#d) - [E](#e) - [F](#f) - [G](#g) - [H](#h) - [I](#i) - [J](#j) - [K](#k) - [L](#l) - [M](#m) - [N](#n) - [O](#o) - [P](#p) - [Q](#q) - [R](#r) - [S](#s) - [T](#t) - [U](#u) - [V](#v) - [W](#w) - [X](#x) - [Y](#y) - [Z](#z)

### A

  * **[apr: Apache Portable Runtime Library (libapr-1.so) 1.7.0](apr.md)<a id='apr'></a>**<br>
    APR is Apache's Portable Runtime Library, designed to be a support library that provides a predictable and consistent interface to underlying platform-specific implementations.

  * **[apr-util: Apache Portable Runtime Utility Library (libaprutil-1.so) 1.6.1](apr-util.md)<a id='apr-util'></a>**<br>
    APR Util is a utilities library implemented on top of APR, providing database access, xml parsing, and other useful functionality.

  * **[attr: libattr (libattr.so) 2.4.44](attr.md)<a id='attr'></a>**<br>
    libattr allows to modify extended attributes of files.

### B

  * **[bluez-libs (libbluetooth.so) 2.25](bluez-libs.md)<a id='bluez-libs'></a>**<br>
    The overall goal of the bluez project is to make an implementation of the Bluetooth wireless standards specifications for Linux.

### D

  * **[db: Berkeley DB library (libdb.so) 4.8.30](db.md)<a id='db'></a>**<br>
    The Berkeley database library.

  * **[devmapper: libdevmapper (libdevmapper.so) 1.02.27](devmapper.md)<a id='devmapper'></a>**<br>
    Device-mapper library.

### E

  * **[expat: libexpat (libexpat.so) 2.4.8](expat.md)<a id='expat'></a>**<br>
    This is Expat, a C library for parsing XML, written by James Clark. Expat is a stream-oriented XML parser. This means that you register handlers with the parser before starting the parse. These handlers are called when the parser discovers the associated structures in the document being parsed. A start tag is an example of the kind of structures for which you may register handlers.

### F

  * **[FLAC (libFLAC.so) 1.3.2](flac.md)<a id='flac'></a>**<br>
    Free Lossless Audio Codec library.

  * **[FreeType 2 font engine (freetype.so) 2.10.1](freetype.md)<a id='freetype'></a>**<br>
    FreeType 2 is a software font engine that is designed to be small, efficient, highly customizable, and portable while capable of producing high-quality output (glyph images). It can be used in graphics libraries, display servers, font conversion tools, text image generation tools, and many other products as well.

### G

  * **[gettext: libintl (libintl.so) 0.18.1.1](gettext.md)<a id='gettext'></a>**<br>
    GNU Internationalization library

  * **[GLib2 libglib (libglib-2.0.so) 2.32.4](glib2.md)<a id='glib2'></a>**<br>
    GLib is a library containing many useful C routines for things such as trees, hashes, and lists.

  * **[gmp: GNU MP Bignum Library (libgmp.so) 6.1.2](gmp.md)<a id='gmp'></a>**<br>
    GNU MP Bignum Library The GMP library provides arbitrary precision arithmetic, operating on signed integers, rational numbers, and floating point numbers. It can be used to implement cryptographic algorithms.

  * **[gsasl: libgsasl (libgsasl.so) 1.10.0](gsasl.md)<a id='gsasl'></a>**<br>
    GNU SASL is an implementation of the Simple Authentication and Security Layer framework and a few common SASL mechanisms. SASL is used by network servers (e.g., IMAP, SMTP, XMPP) to request authentication from clients, and in clients to authenticate against servers.

### I

  * **[iksemel: libiksemel (libiksemel.so) 1.4.2](iksemel.md)<a id='iksemel'></a>**<br>
    iksemel is an XML (eXtensible Markup Language) parser library designed for Jabber applications.

### J

  * **[jansson: libjansson (libjansson.so) 2.7](jansson.md)<a id='jansson'></a>**<br>
    A C library for encoding, decoding and manipulating JSON data.

  * **[JPEG library (libjpeg.so) 9d](jpeg.md)<a id='jpeg'></a>**<br>
    libjpeg is a library for handling the JPEG (JFIF) image format

### L

  * **[ldns: libldns (libldns.so) 1.7.1](ldns.md)<a id='ldns'></a>**<br>
    The goal of ldns is to simplify DNS programming, it supports recent RFCs like the DNSSEC documents, and allows developers to easily create software conforming to current RFCs, and experimental software for current Internet Drafts. A secondary benefit of using ldns is speed; ldns is written in C it should be a lot faster than Perl.

  * **[leptonica (liblept.so) 1.69](leptonica.md)<a id='leptonica'></a>**<br>
    A library for efficient image processing and image analysis operations.

  * **[libart_lgpl: Libart 2D graphics (libart.so) 2.3.21](libart_lgpl.md)<a id='libart-lgpl'></a>**<br>
    Libart is a library for high-performance 2D graphics. It supports a very powerful imaging model, basically the same as SVG and the Java 2D API. It includes all PostScript imaging operations, and adds antialiasing and alpha-transparency. It is also highly tuned for incremental rendering. It contains data structures and algorithms suited to rapid, precise computation of Region of Interest, and a two-phase rendering pipeline optimized for interactive display.

  * **[libatomic (libatomic.so) 1.0.0/1.1.0/1.2.0](libatomic.md)<a id='libatomic'></a>**<br>
    GCC Atomics Library Included in gcc since v4.8, see https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/Atomic/GCCMM

  * **[libavmacl2 7490.06.30](libavmacl2.md)<a id='libavmacl2'></a>**<br>

  * **[libavmhmac (libavmhmac.so) - EXPERIMENTAL 0.2](libavmhmac.md)<a id='libavmhmac'></a>**<br>
    Replaces AVM's libavmhmac. Our libavmhmac only forwards functions to openssl's libcrypto where AVM wrote their own implementations. We have no clue why they did this.

  * **[libcap (libcap.so) 2.49/2.65](libcap.md)<a id='libcap'></a>**<br>
    A library for getting and setting POSIX.1e (formerly POSIX 6) draft 15 capabilities.

  * **[libcapi: CAPI 2.0 (libcapi20.so) avm-7390.05.50](libcapi.md)<a id='libcapi'></a>**<br>
    COMMON-ISDN-API (CAPI) 2.0 Library

  * **[libconfig (libconfig.so) 1.5](libconfig.md)<a id='libconfig'></a>**<br>
    Libconfig is a simple library for processing structured configuration files. Libconfig is very compact - just 46K for the stripped C shared library. This makes it well-suited for memory-constrained systems.

  * **[libctlmgr (libctlmgr.so) 0.6.9](libctlmgr.md)<a id='libctlmgr'></a>**<br>
    This is Freetz compatibility library which overwrites functions of AVM's libraries, e.g. write_etc_passwd.

  * **[libdaemon (libdaemon.so) 0.14](libdaemon.md)<a id='libdaemon'></a>**<br>
    Libdaemon is a lightweight C library that eases the writing of UNIX daemons.

  * **[libdnet (libdnet.so) 665](libdnet.md)<a id='libdnet'></a>**<br>
    libdnet provides a simplified, portable interface to several low-level networking routines, including: * network address manipulation * kernel arp(4) cache and route(4) table lookup and manipulation * network firewalling (IP filter, ipfw, ipchains, pf, PktFilter, ...) * network interface lookup and manipulation * IP tunnelling (BSD/Linux tun, Universal TUN/TAP device) * raw IP packet and Ethernet frame transmission http://libdnet.sourceforge.net/ dnet is a simple test program for the dnet(3) library. It can be used to compose and transmit network datagrams as a Unix-style filter (e.g. reading from or writing to files and pipes) or modify the local system network configuration (including the ARP cache, firewall ruleset, network interfaces, and routing table). http://libdnet.sourceforge.net/dnet.8.txt

  * **[libdvbcsa (libdvbcsa.so) 1.1.0](libdvbcsa.md)<a id='libdvbcsa'></a>**<br>
    libdvbcsa is a free implementation of the DVB Common Scrambling Algorithm (DVB/CSA) with encryption and decryption capabilities.

  * **[libelf (libelf.so) 0.8.13](libelf.md)<a id='libelf'></a>**<br>
    libelf - ELF object file access library

  * **[libev (libev.so) 4.15](libev.md)<a id='libev'></a>**<br>
    libev provides a full-featured and high-performance event loop that is loosely modelled after libevent. It includes relative timers, absolute timers with customized rescheduling, synchronous signals, process status change events, event watchers dealing with the event loop itself, file watchers, and even limited support for fork events. It uses a priority queue to manage timers and uses arrays as fundamental data structure. It has no artificial limitations on the number of watchers waiting for the same event.

  * **[libevent (libevent.so) 2.1.12-stable](libevent.md)<a id='libevent'></a>**<br>
    libevent is an asynchronous event notification software library. The libevent API provides a mechanism to execute a callback function when a specific event occurs on a file descriptor or after a timeout has been reached. Furthermore, libevent also support callbacks due to signals or regular timeouts. libevent is meant to replace the event loop found in event-driven network servers. An application just needs to call event_dispatch() and then add or remove events dynamically without having to change the event loop.

  * **[libexif: EXIF library (libexif.so) 0.6.24](libexif.md)<a id='libexif'></a>**<br>
    libexif is a library for parsing, editing, and saving EXIF data.

  * **[libffi (libffi.so) 3.2.1](libffi.md)<a id='libffi'></a>**<br>
    libffi is a library that really only provides the lowest, machine dependent layer of a fully featured foreign function interface. A layer must exist above libffi that handles type conversions for values passed between the two languages. ffi stands for Foreign Function Interface. A foreign function interface is the popular name for the interface that allows code written in one language to call code written in another language.

  * **[libftdi (libftdi.so) 0.20](libftdi.md)<a id='libftdi'></a>**<br>
    A library (using libusb) to talk to FTDI's FT232BM/245BM, FT2232C/D and FT232/245R type chips including the popular bitbang mode.

  * **[libgcc_s (libgcc_s.so) 1](libgcc_s.md)<a id='libgcc-s'></a>**<br>
    GCC low-level runtime library GCC provides a low-level runtime library, `libgcc.a' or `libgcc_s.so.1' on some platforms. GCC generates calls to routines in this library automatically, whenever it needs to perform some operation that is too complicated to emit inline code for. Most of the routines in libgcc handle arithmetic operations that the target processor cannot perform directly. This includes integer multiply and divide on some machines, and all floating-point operations on other machines. libgcc also includes routines for exception handling, and a handful of miscellaneous operations.

  * **[libgcrypt: GnuPG crypto library (libgcrypt.so) 1.10.1](libgcrypt.md)<a id='libgcrypt'></a>**<br>
    Libgcrypt is a general-purpose cryptographic library based on the code from GnuPG. It provides functions for all cryptographic building blocks: symmetric ciphers (AES, DES, Blowfish, CAST5, Twofish, and Arcfour), hash algorithms (MD4, MD5, RIPE-MD160, SHA-1, and TIGER-192), MACs (HMAC for all hash algorithms), public key algorithms (RSA, ElGamal, and DSA), large integer functions, random numbers, and a lot of supporting functions.

  * **[libgd (libgd.so) 2.3.3](libgd.md)<a id='libgd'></a>**<br>
    GD is an open source code library for the dynamic creation of images by programmers. GD creates PNG, JPEG and GIF images, among other formats. GD is commonly used to generate charts, graphics, thumbnails, and most anything else, on the fly.

  * **[libgpg-error: GnuPG error library (libgpg-error.so) 1.45](libgpg-error.md)<a id='libgpg-error'></a>**<br>
    Libgpg-error is a small library that defines common error values for all GnuPG components. Among these are GPG, GPGSM, GPGME, GPG-Agent, libgcrypt, Libksba, DirMngr, Pinentry, SmartCard Daemon and possibly more in the future.

  * **[libgsm (libgsm.so) 1.0.13](libgsm.md)<a id='libgsm'></a>**<br>
    This package contains runtime shared libraries for libgsm, an implementation of the European GSM 06.10 provisional standard for full-rate speech transcoding, prI-ETS 300 036, which uses RPE/LTP (residual pulse excitation/long term prediction) coding at 13 kbit/s.

  * **[libid3tag (libid3tag.so) 0.15.1b](libid3tag.md)<a id='libid3tag'></a>**<br>
    ID3 tag manipulation library

  * **[libidn (libidn.so) 1.38](libidn.md)<a id='libidn'></a>**<br>
    GNU Libidn is a fully documented implementation of the Stringprep, Punycode and IDNA 2003 specifications. Libidn's purpose is to encode and decode internationalized domain names.

  * **[libmad (libmad.so) 0.15.1b](libmad.md)<a id='libmad'></a>**<br>
    MAD is a high-quality MPEG audio decoder. It currently supports MPEG-1 and the MPEG-2 extension to Lower Sampling Frequencies, as well as the so-called MPEG 2.5 format. All three audio layers (Layer I, Layer II, and Layer III a.k.a. MP3) are fully implemented.

  * **[libmaxminddb (libmaxminddb.so) 1.6.0](libmaxminddb.md)<a id='libmaxminddb'></a>**<br>
    C library for the MaxMind DB file format. You'll need an additional .mmdb file, put it on storage. Get it here: https://github.com/P3TERX/GeoLite.mmdb/

  * **[libmnl (libmnl.so) 1.0.4](libmnl.md)<a id='libmnl'></a>**<br>
    libmnl is a minimalistic user-space library oriented to Netlink developers. There are a lot of common tasks in parsing, validating, constructing of both the Netlink header and TLVs that are repetitive and easy to get wrong. This library aims to provide simple helpers that allows you to re-use code and to avoid re-inventing the wheel.

  * **[libmultid (libmultid.so) 0.5](libmultid.md)<a id='libmultid'></a>**<br>
    If this library is preloaded to multid, some portbindings will be remapped.

  * **[libnet (libnet.so) 1.1.4](libnet.md)<a id='libnet'></a>**<br>
    A C library for portable packet creation and injection. Libnet is an API to help with the construction and handling of network packets.  It provides a portable framework for low-level network packet writing and handling (use libnet in conjunction with libpcap and you can write some really cool stuff).  Libnet includes packet creation at the IP layer and at the link layer as well as a host of supplementary and complementary functionality.  Libnet is very handy with which to write network tools and network test code.  See the manpage and sample test code for more detailed information. http://github.com/sam-github/libnet Contact Sam Roberts <vieuxtech@gmail.com> if you have patches or have found bugs.

  * **[libnfsidmap (libnfsidmap.so) 0.27](libnfsidmap.md)<a id='libnfsidmap'></a>**<br>
    This library provides support for the idmapd service used by NFSv4.

  * **[libogg (libogg.so) 1.3.2](libogg.md)<a id='libogg'></a>**<br>
    Libogg is a library for manipulating ogg bitstreams. It handles both making ogg bitstreams and getting packets from ogg bitstreams.

  * **[libonig: Oniguruma (libonig.so) 6.7.1](libonig.md)<a id='libonig'></a>**<br>
    Oniguruma is a modern and flexible regular expressions library. It encompasses features from different regular expression implementations that traditionally exist in different languages. It comes close to being a complete superset of all regular expression features found in other regular expression implementations.

  * **[liboping (liboping.so) 1.6.1](liboping.md)<a id='liboping'></a>**<br>
    A simple library for creating ICMP echo (ping) packets.

  * **[libosip2 (libosip2.so) 3.5.0](libosip2.md)<a id='libosip2'></a>**<br>
    GNU oSIP library, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) implementation.

  * **[libpcap (libpcap.so) 1.1.1/1.10.1](libpcap.md)<a id='libpcap'></a>**<br>
    libpcap is a system-independent interface for user-level packet capture. libpcap provides a portable framework for low-level network monitoring. Applications include network statistics collection, security monitoring, network debugging, etc.

  * **[libpng: PNG library (libpng.so) 1.2.59](libpng.md)<a id='libpng'></a>**<br>
    libpng is the official PNG reference library. It supports almost all PNG features, is extensible, and has been extensively tested for over 12 years. The home site for development versions (i.e., may be buggy or subject to change or include experimental features) is http://libpng.sourceforge.net/, and the place to go for questions about the library is the png-mng-implement mailing list.

  * **[libssh2 (libssh2.so) 1.10.0](libssh2.md)<a id='libssh2'></a>**<br>
    libssh2 is a client-side C library implementing the SSH2 protocol.

  * **[libstdcxx: libstdc++ (libstdc++-6.0.x.so) 6.0.16/6.0.17/6.0.19/6.0.20/6.0.21/6.0.25/6.0.28](libstdcxx.md)<a id='libstdcxx'></a>**<br>
    GNU implementation of the Standard C++ Library.

  * **[libsynce (libsynce.so) 0.10.0](libsynce.md)<a id='libsynce'></a>**<br>
    A helper library for SynCE, a framework to sync WinCE devices

  * **[libtasn1: GNU ASN1 library (libtasn1.so) 4.13](libtasn1.md)<a id='libtasn1'></a>**<br>
    A small ASN.1 library.

  * **[libtirpc (libtirpc.so) 1.3.3](libtirpc.md)<a id='libtirpc'></a>**<br>
    Libtirpc is a port of Suns Transport-Independent RPC library to Linux. It's being developed by the Bull GNU/Linux NFSv4 project.

  * **[libtool (libltdl.so) 1.5.26](libtool.md)<a id='libtool'></a>**<br>
    A generic dynamic object loading library

  * **[libusb-0.1 (libusb-0.1.so) 0.1.7/0.1.12](libusb.md)<a id='libusb'></a>**<br>
    A library for accessing Linux USB devices (legacy API).

  * **[libusb1: libusb-1.0 (libusb-1.0.so) 1.0.23/1.0.26](libusb1.md)<a id='libusb1'></a>**<br>
    A library for accessing Linux USB devices (current API).

  * **[libuv (libuv.so) 1.44.2](libuv.md)<a id='libuv'></a>**<br>
    libuv is a async IO library for various programs

  * **[libvorbis (libvorbis.so) 1.3.5](libvorbis.md)<a id='libvorbis'></a>**<br>
    Vorbis is the name of a specific audio compression scheme that's designed to be contained in Ogg. libvorbis is a BSD-style license software implementation of the Vorbis specification by the Xiph.Org Foundation.

  * **[libxml2 (libxml2.so) 2.9.14](libxml2.md)<a id='libxml2'></a>**<br>
    XML toolkit from the GNOME project

  * **[linux-atm (libatm.so) 2.5.2](linux-atm.md)<a id='linux-atm'></a>**<br>
    Libatm is a library for accessing the Linux ATM subsystem.

  * **[LZ4 (liblz4.so) 1.9.3](lz4.md)<a id='lz4'></a>**<br>
    LZ4 is a very fast lossless compression algorithm, providing compression speed at 400 MB/s per core, scalable with multi-cores CPU. It also features an extremely fast decoder, with speed in multiple GB/s per core, typically reaching RAM speed limits on multi-core systems.

  * **[lzma1 465](lzma1.md)<a id='lzma1'></a>**<br>

  * **[LZO (liblzo2.so) 2.10](lzo.md)<a id='lzo'></a>**<br>
    LZO is a portable lossless data compression library written in ANSI C. It offers pretty fast compression and *very* fast decompression. Decompression requires no memory. In addition there are slower compression levels achieving a quite competitive compression ratio while still decompressing at this very high speed.

### M

  * **[mbedtls: mbed crypto (libmbedcrypto.so) 2.7.19/2.28.1](mbedtls.md)<a id='mbedtls'></a>**<br>
    Enables support for the Blowfish block cipher.

  * **[mpc: GNU MPC Library (libmpc.so) 1.1.0](mpc.md)<a id='mpc'></a>**<br>
    MPC is a C library for the arithmetic of complex numbers with arbitrarily high precision and correct rounding of the result. It is built upon and follows the same principles as MPFR.

  * **[mpfr: GNU MPFR Library (libmpfr.so) 3.1.6](mpfr.md)<a id='mpfr'></a>**<br>
    MPFR provides a library for multiple-precision floating-point computation with correct rounding. The computation is both efficient and has a well-defined semantics. It copies the good ideas from the ANSI/IEEE-754 standard for double-precision floating-point arithmetic (53-bit mantissa).

### N

  * **[ncurses (libncurses.so) 6.3](ncurses.md)<a id='ncurses'></a>**<br>
    ncurses is a programming library providing an API, allowing the programmer to write text user interfaces in a terminal-independent manner. It also optimizes screen changes, in order to reduce the latency experienced when using remote shells. Ncurses stands for "new curses", and is a replacement for the discontinued 4.4 BSD classic curses.

  * **[ncursesw (libncursesw.so) 6.3](ncursesw.md)<a id='ncursesw'></a>**<br>
    ncurses is a programming library providing an API, allowing the programmer to write text user interfaces in a terminal-independent manner. It also optimizes screen changes, in order to reduce the latency experienced when using remote shells. Ncurses stands for "new curses", and is a replacement for the discontinued 4.4 BSD classic curses. Ncursesw has additional wide-character (unicode) support. Ncurses and Ncursesw libraries are source-compatible, but not binary-compatible.

  * **[neon: libneon (libneon.so) 0.30.2/0.32.2](neon.md)<a id='neon'></a>**<br>
    neon is an HTTP and WebDAV client library, with a C language API.

  * **[nettle: libnettle (libnettle.so) 3.6](nettle.md)<a id='nettle'></a>**<br>
    A low level cryptographic library (symmetric and one-way cryptos)

### O

  * **[openjpeg: libopenjpeg (libopenjpeg.so) 1.5.2](openjpeg.md)<a id='openjpeg'></a>**<br>
    JPEG 2000 image compression/decompression library

  * **[openobex: libopenobex (libopenobex.so) 1.3](openobex.md)<a id='openobex'></a>**<br>
    The overall goal of this project is to make an open source implementation of the Object Exchange (OBEX) protocol.

  * **[opus: libopus (libopus.so) 1.1.4](opus.md)<a id='opus'></a>**<br>
    Opus is a totally open, royalty-free, highly versatile audio codec. It is primarily designed for interactive speech and music transmission over the Internet, but is also applicable to storage and streaming applications. It incorporates technology from Skype's SILK codec and Xiph.Org's CELT codec. It has been standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) as RFC 6716.

### P

  * **[pcre: libpcre (libpcre.so) 8.45](pcre.md)<a id='pcre'></a>**<br>
    A Perl Compatible Regular Expression library

  * **[pcre2: libpcre2 (libpcre2-8.so) 10.40](pcre2.md)<a id='pcre2'></a>**<br>
    A Perl Compatible Regular Expression library

  * **[pjproject2: libpj (libpj.so) 2.2.1](pjproject2.md)<a id='pjproject2'></a>**<br>

  * **[pkcs11 2.20](pkcs11.md)<a id='pkcs11'></a>**<br>

  * **[polarssl12: PolarSSL-1.2.x (libpolarssl12.so) 1.2.19](polarssl12.md)<a id='polarssl12'></a>**<br>
    The aim of the PolarSSL project is to provide a quality, open-source cryptographic library written in C and targeted at embedded systems. See https://polarssl.org for more details.

  * **[polarssl13: PolarSSL-1.3.x (libpolarssl13.so) 1.3.22](polarssl13.md)<a id='polarssl13'></a>**<br>
    The aim of the PolarSSL project is to provide a quality, open-source cryptographic library written in C and targeted at embedded systems. See https://polarssl.org for more details.

  * **[popt: libpopt (libpopt.so) 1.16](popt.md)<a id='popt'></a>**<br>
    The popt library exists essentially for parsing command line options.

  * **[protobuf-c: libprotobuf-c (libprotobuf-c.so) 1.1.0](protobuf-c.md)<a id='protobuf-c'></a>**<br>
    Library providing a flexible, efficient, automated mechanism for serializing structured data.

### R

  * **[readline: libreadline (libreadline.so) 6.3](readline.md)<a id='readline'></a>**<br>
    The Readline library provides a set of functions for use by applications that allow users to edit command lines as they are typed in. Both Emacs and vi editing modes are available. The Readline library includes additional functions to maintain a list of previously-entered command lines, to recall and perhaps reedit those lines, and perform csh-like history expansion on previous commands.

### S

  * **[serf: libserf (libserf.so) 1.3.9](serf.md)<a id='serf'></a>**<br>
    High-performance asynchronous HTTP client library

  * **[spandsp: libspandsp (libspandsp.so) 0.0.6](spandsp.md)<a id='spandsp'></a>**<br>
    SpanDSP is a library of DSP functions for telephony, in the 8000 sample per second world of E1s, T1s, and higher order PCM channels. It contains low level functions, such as basic filters. It also contains higher level functions, such as cadenced supervisory tone detection, and a complete software FAX machine.

  * **[speex: libspeex (libspeex.so) 1.2rc1](speex.md)<a id='speex'></a>**<br>
    Speex is an Open Source/Free Software patent-free audio compression format designed for speech. This package contains the shared codec library.

  * **[srtp: libsrtp (libsrtp.so) 1.4.4](srtp.md)<a id='srtp'></a>**<br>
    SRTP is a security profile for RTP that adds confidentiality, message authentication, and replay protection to that protocol. It is specified in RFC 3711. LibSRTP provides an implementation of the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP), the Universal Security Transform (UST), and a supporting cryptographic kernel.

  * **[sysfsutils: libsysfs (libsysfs.so) 2.1.0](sysfsutils.md)<a id='sysfsutils'></a>**<br>
    The library's purpose is to provide a consistant and stable interface for querying system device information exposed through sysfs.

### T

  * **[taglib (libtag.so) 1.6.3](taglib.md)<a id='taglib'></a>**<br>
    TagLib is a library for reading and editing the meta-data of several popular audio formats. Currently it supports both ID3v1 and ID3v2 for MP3 files, Ogg Vorbis comments and ID3 tags and Vorbis comments in FLAC, MPC, Speex, WavPack TrueAudio, WAV, AIFF, MP4 and ASF files.

### U

  * **[uclibc: ld-uClibc (ld-uClibc-x.y.z.so)](uclibc.md)<a id='uclibc'></a>**<br>
    uClibc is a small C standard library intended for embedded Linux systems. uClibc was created to support uClinux, a version of Linux not requiring a memory management unit and thus suited for microcontrollers (hence the "uC" in the name - "u" is a replacement for the Greek character "miu" often used as an abbreviation for the prefix "micro"). uClibc is much smaller than GNU C Library (glibc), the C library normally used with Linux distributions. While glibc is intended to fully support all relevant C standards across a wide range of platforms, uClibc is specifically focused on embedded Linux. Features can be enabled or disabled according to space requirements.

  * **[uclibcxx: uClibc++ (libuClibc++.so.0.2.5) 2b58f77ee27c60842054fd0e5dd67f5d00e89eb8](uclibcxx.md)<a id='uclibcxx'></a>**<br>
    An implementation of the Standard C++ Library optimized for embedded systems.

  * **[udns: libudns (libudns.so) 0.4](udns.md)<a id='udns'></a>**<br>
    UDNS is a stub DNS resolver library with ability to perform both syncronous and asyncronous DNS queries.

  * **[utf8proc (libutf8proc.so) 2.7.0](utf8proc.md)<a id='utf8proc'></a>**<br>
    a clean C library for processing UTF-8 Unicode data: normalization, case-folding, graphemes, and more

### Y

  * **[yaml: libyaml (libyaml.so) 0.1.4](yaml.md)<a id='yaml'></a>**<br>
    LibYAML is a YAML 1.1 configuration file parser and emitter.

### Z

  * **[Zlib (libz.so) 1.2.12](zlib.md)<a id='zlib'></a>**<br>
    zlib is a lossless data-compression library for use on virtually any computer hardware and operating system. The zlib data format is itself portable across platforms.
